The goal of my project was to create a sound that immersed its
listeners into the college library scene. The narrative of this
audio was centered around two friends casually talking and
avoiding work on the loud ground floor of Hillman library.
In order to create a plot for this narrative, one of the
characters forgets about a large assignment they have due and
therefore needs to miss hanging out with friends
in order to finish it. In order to accomplish this audio
narrative, I first focused on the background noise needed to
create the feeling of being in a loud library. I pulled six
background sounds including a college crowd noise, a soft library
noise, a backpack zipping, book pages flipping, the card swipe
sound needed to access Hillman, and fast paced keyboard typing.
All of these sounds contributed to the background noise equally
because the louder crowd noises add the effect of a collaborative
work environment therefore allowing the main character
conversations to ensue while the more subtle noises allow for
noises that trigger connections to a library. In order to get
the correct combination of sounds, I amplified each to a
different volume so that they layered correctly, emphasizing
the sound of the louder crowd noises by amplifying them more
while the other library noises were amplified less. Consequently,
the college crowd noise was the most overpowering sound used
while the other sounds were more subtle. Next, I added the four
different conversation sections of the audio to create the story
aspect. These were easy to amplify and place as they simply
needed to be louder than the background noise and I had
jurisdiction over the amount of time between each audio.
In order to reach the two minute mark, I decided that at least
ten seconds needed to separate each conversation audio. They
were recorded on voice memos on my iPhone and then imputed into
Audacity via an adapter program. After these audios were
placed I noticed a lot of dead space between the conversation
sections and decided that an event needed to occur between at
least two of these audios. There were two events I decided to
create within the background of my audio. The first being a
drink being spilled followed by an angry voice while the other
was a person finishing their drink and getting up to throw it
away. First, I added the sound of a soda spilling and women
saying "damn it" twice between conversation audios two and three
in order to capture the attention of the audience. Lastly,
I added the sounds of someone finishing their drink, a chair
pulling out, walking, someone throwing a drink away, and a chair
pulling in. These sounds effectively added narrative to my story
and eliminated focus on the dead background space previously
focused on. The last two things I added to my audio were the fade
out of the background noise at the end in order to cue to the
listeners that the audio narrative had finished and an audio
clip of my voice directing listeners towards my list of audio
credits.
First picture of audio:
Screen Shot 2022-01-26 at 9.45.43 PM
Last pictures of audio:
Screen Shot 2022-02-07 at 12.13.12 AM
Screen Shot 2022-02-07 at 12.13.14 AM
Picture of feedback:
Screen Shot 2022-02-07 at 3.32.34 PM
I revised my audio based on this feedback because prior
to receiving this feedback there was a lot of dead
space between each of my conversation audios. Due to
this feedback I added the soda spilling event and the
throwing the finished drink away event as well to eliminate
this dead space.
Baseline Criteria:
I think I met the baseline criteria because my audio plays
for about 2:15 with multiple sounds overlapping and there is a
change within the story centered around the juxtaposition
between the relaxed nature of the characters at the beginning
and the frantic nature of the scene prompted by the realization
that one of the main characters needs to finish an assignment
last minute. Also, my audio is a combination of sounds recorded
by me and sounds I found online which is outlined in my assests
list. I also used multiple Audacity effects including the
amplifying function and the fade in and out functions.
Aspirational Inspirations:
Since this was my first time ever using the Audacity program
I think that I met several of the aspirational criteria.
Since I worked hard at creating smooth transitions with
the Audacity effects that were new to me, I believe that I
avoided the problem of sharp cuts within my audio. This also
contributed to the audience interpretation being similar
to my intentions because this smoothness between audios
contributed to the immersive affect of my audio.   
